Video Transcript #1

 Just like how everything is bigger in Texas, everything is deadlier in Australia. Mostly the nature, as it's home to a highly disproportionate amount of potentially lethal animals, having more venomous species than all but two countries. Yet, it takes the cake when only considering venomous animals that are fatal to humans. On top of this, it is home to 20 of the 25 most deadliest snakes in the world, including all of the top 11, and it's the native country of one of the only birds known to occasionally kill humans, the cassowary. Meanwhile, you also have the classics like the saltwater crocodile, grey white shark, spiders, and potent jellyfish. And in case you needed a little more proof that Australia really is the land of nope, you should know that it's where some of the largest insects in the world call home, is one of the few places where pinecones can kill you, and is where the top three largest wildfires in the 21st century are. So, Australia is home to a lot of the most dangerous and most dangerous animals in the world, including the most dangerous and most dangerous species in the world. But, it's not just Australia, it's home to the most dangerous and most dangerous species in the world, and it's home to the most dangerous and most dangerous species in the world, and it's home to the most dangerous and most dangerous species in the world. The list could go on and on, but you get the idea. So, it may be hard to stomach the fact that Australia is actually much more tame than it used to be. And I'm not talking about the fact that it used to be home to dinosaurs, but rather giant monitor lizards and terrestrial crocodiles, which is right around when humans first arrived. Talk about good timing. Back in those days, reptilian predators, not mammalian, ruled Australia. And it wouldn't take long for anyone to realize that something was very wrong once they set foot on land, as there were a host of nightmarish creatures wandering around. One being a literal land croc. Not a crocodile lookalike, but a genuine real crocodilian that happened to run comfortably on land. This creature was known as the canna, and it was one of Australia's top predators during the Pleistocene. It shared many features with the crocodiles we know of today, and was once even considered a true crocodile. Although, thanks to a very odd skull structure, it was moved to the extinct clade of Mecosuchinae. Along with the odd skull, paleontologists also noticed that it had some strange legs as well, that were very long for a crocodilian, allowing it to keep its body clear of terrain and potentially sprint. This has led to the fact that it's a very long-lived creature, and it's also very long-lived. This has led to it being considered a terrestrial predator, with further evidence coming from its hoof-like toes and flat tail, which wasn't designed for swimming. Unfortunately for all land dwellers, the quincana was also no small critter, with most adults measuring 3 meters or 10 feet and weighing 200 kilograms or 440 pounds, making it nearly identical in weight to a medium sized American alligator. Not to worry though, as there were larger individuals as well. The quincana was also known as the quincana of the quincana, which is a very large alligator. With one specimen reaching 6 meters or 20 feet in length. At this size, it had no problem taking down mammals, including an unlucky human from time to time. Getting attacked by this croc was an absolute nightmare, as its teeth were designed to slice animals up like a filet mignon, with each tooth being blade-like, compressed, and heavily serrated. These kind of teeth are referred to as xiphodon teeth, and is what was commonly seen in theropods. Having such vicious dentition, the quincana could take down animals that were considerably larger than itself, with each bite tearing through large portions of flesh and muscle. There's a chance as well that you couldn't even outsmart this croc by jumping in the water, as there is some evidence that it was an accomplished swimmer, in spite of spending most of its life on land. Shockingly, or maybe by this point, unshockingly, even a terrestrial croc that could swim and had dinosaur-like teeth wasn't safe from other Australian creatures. Even though the quincana was a very large animal, it was still a very large animal. As there was also the largest known terrestrial lizard walking around, megalania. There's a fair chance you've heard of this reptile due to its recent popularity. Yet, you may not have heard that it's no longer known as the megalania, rather varinus priscus, meaning it was actually a giant species of monitor lizard. Despite this classification change, the megalania is still usually referred to by its original name. Perhaps because it's much more fitting, as it translates to the great roamer. A nod to its massive size, and massive it was. Paleontologists never seem to agree on the exact measurements, but all estimates have given it a length of at least 3.5 meters, or 11 feet, with an approximate weight of 158 kilograms, or 348 pounds. So at the minimum, we are talking about a lizard that was as long as a sea lion and as heavy as a reindeer. And at its maximum, things frankly got crazy, with studies finding it to have essentially obtained lengths of up to 7.9 meters, or 26 feet, which is based on fragmented remains that were scaled up to living monitor lizards. This would have made them just as lengthy as the longest recorded anaconda, but 8.5 times heavier due to its robust build, with an absolute maximum weight of 2 tons. However, for the most part, large megalania were probably no more than 575 kilograms, or 1,200 pounds. Although, it wasn't only a giant. As like living monitor lizards, the megalania possessed razor sharp teeth that were fairly long and recurved, granting extra grip while holding onto prey. The megalania is further thought to have used its tremendously powerful legs and sharp claws to bring down prey and foe alike. Naturally, in true Australian fashion, the megalania might have been venomous as well due to its heritage, since all monitor lizards presently living are considered to be venomous. Their venom, similar to what is seen in some snakes, works as an anticoagulant, meaning it prevents blood from clotting which leads to shock and infections as it keeps wounds open for longer periods of time. And because the Komodo dragon, also known as the Komodo monitor, is the megalania's closest living relative, certain paleontologists believe that the two shared similar hunting tactics of biting prey, retreating, and then letting the venom do the work. So that's to say, even if you manage to get away from an authentic megalania, you can still get away from it. If you were to attack a megalania, you would still be doomed. All of these attributes make megalania feasibly the worst thing you could have run into. Unless, that is, you have ophidiophobia, a fear of snakes. In this case, your mortal enemy back then would have been Wonambi. This name may not sound like much, but it should strike fear into any who hears it, as it belongs to a now extinct giant serpent that lived right alongside both the quincana and megalania. This snake is unlike any we know of today. For example, the quincana is a snake that lives right alongside the megalania. It's a snake that lives right alongside the quincana. It's a snake that lives right alongside the quincana. It's a snake that lives right alongside the quincana. For it belonged to a family of now extinct snakes known as the Matsuiidae. Snakes from this family were primarily characterized by somewhat inflexible primitive jaws and giant sizes, with the Wonambi being one of the biggest. It didn't quite reach the length of the longest living snakes of today, but came awfully close with the larger specimens having a length of 6 meters or 20 feet, equivalent to a large Burmese python. Luckily for us, the Wonambi did break the Australian trend of possessing venom. Nevertheless, its size still rendered it a potent killer, who might have hunted in a very similar fashion to the extant constrictor snakes, which is to say by using ambushes near bodies of water to strike unsuspecting prey that were then killed by tightening its muscles and squeezing the animal so hard that blood couldn't reach their brain or heart, thus incapacitating them. Afterwards though is where things got different, because as mentioned, the Wonambi was a snake that lived right alongside the megalania. The Wonambi had an inflexible and somewhat smaller head that couldn't swallow prey whole. This may sound like a good thing for prey, but in reality it just made the snake more nightmarish. As to make up for this inability, it would simply use its sharp teeth and powerful body to tear chunks off prey, sometimes even disemboweling them. Such an unpleasant way to go out may have been more common for early Australians than being preyed upon by the megalania or quincana, as one study showed. In some indigenous populations today, snake attacks by constrictors are a common cause of death. By now, it would be reasonable for you to wonder how any mammal could survive living with so many reptilian whores. And the answer is, the mammals were just as crazy. Best exemplified by the thylacoleo. This mammal is best known for its immense size, with adults being the largest known mammalian predators to ever live in Australia. On average, specimens were about the same size as a wild boar, while the largest thylacoleo were on par with fully matured female lions and tigers, with whom it also shared a few characteristics. Yet, this was no feline. Far from it, actually, as the thylacoleo was really a marsupial mammal that is most closely related to the koala. And like the koala, it's thought that the thylacoleo had a smaller brain. However, in its case, a smaller brain was a huge advantage, as it gave the skull more space for extremely dense and wide, sturdy bones. That ultimately led to the strongest bite, pound for pound, of any known mammal. It's been estimated that a medium-sized thylacoleo was capable of biting with the same force as a lion 2.5 times its size, leading paleontologists to suspect that this marsupial was capable of taking down big-bodied prey that were 15 times heavier than itself. And it likely did so in an extremely unique fashion, thanks to its dentition, which consists of a large amount of incisors that were similar to the elongated canines seen in other mammals. Furthermore, it boasted giant premolars that almost resembled flat blades. Together, with its powerful muscles, these bizarre teeth worked wonders, killing animals by piercing deep into the flesh with the incisors while the premolars severed the poor animal's windpipe, spinal cord, and arteries, causing all sorts of fatal problems. This mode of killing was so efficient that researchers think it took less than a minute for the thylacoleo to be able to break free from the animal's body. But, this marsupial lion was able to kill large prey. While the same task for an African lion can take up to 15 minutes or more. And for whatever reason, if its bite didn't do the trick, the thylacoleo had lethal claws as well. On each of its front feet, there was a single large retractable claw that was attached to semi-opposable thumbs. This implied it could move these claws around with ease and dish out killing blows if needed. These additional weapons were also hooked, leading to the idea that thylacoleo was a climber who dragged kills up trees like leopards do. Climbing further allowed it to navigate caves and rough terrain, adding another layer of complexity to this already overpowered marsupial. And so with all of this said, Australia had no doubt some pretty terrifying predators all around, making life fairly interesting for the first humans to arrive. And for them, they wouldn't even be able to find peace around the herbivores. As in response to biological killing machines, the herbivores got pretty ferocious themselves. A good demonstration of this is the diprotodon, an extinct marsupial whose closest living relative is the wombat. The two also did look in some ways similar, except unlike the wombat, the diprotodon was massive, plausibly weighing up to 3.85 tons, which makes it equal in weight to a fully grown Asian elephant. This size gave it much needed durability and would have made hunting it a questionable endeavor, a task further discouraged by the presence of a surprisingly large bite. The diprotodon was strictly a vegetarian, but nonetheless it still had a nasty bite that reached 11,000 newtons in force at the back molars, giving it more than enough power to technically break a human's femur. In addition to elephant sized wombats, birds too were supersized in prehistoric Australia at the time, especially the guineornis. This ancient bird resembled the once widespread terrorbirds, however it actually belonged to a separate family of flightless birds, known as the dromornithidae, or thunderbirds. All members of this family, guineornis included, are believed to have been herbivores despite their menacing appearances. Though like many ancient Australian creatures, they did have size to help balance their defenses out. The guineornis in particular routinely grew to heights taller than humans, with the average individual coming in at 2 meters or 6.5 feet. Moreover, this bird had giant robust horns that gave it durability and heftiness, resulting in it weighing a full quarter of a ton. And if its size wasn't enough of a deterrent, the guineornis could always use its beak or sharp claws to ward off predators that got too close. By now, it should be obvious that ancient Australia was the last place you'd want to visit. And just to really drive it all home, remember that nearly every dangerous animal in Australia today was also still around back then. And that's not to mention other extinct animals which I did find in Australia, but not all of them. So, as I said, I'm not going to mention any of them, including large turtles and additional extinct crocodilians like the paludarex. And of course, nature itself was also harsh with extreme droughts being present. And yet, despite all of these odds, humans still survived in Australia. In fact, not only did they survive, but they managed to thrive and dominate the lands, with evidence showing that they preyed upon multiple of the megafauna mentioned today. Suggesting that maybe we were actually the scariest animals around in Australia. And that's why I'm so excited to see this video. And I'm also excited to see if you guys are interested in watching this video. And if you do, please do subscribe to the channel, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye! Thanks for watching, and until next time, on Extinct Zoo.

Video Transcript #2

 Australia is known for its deadly snakes, crocodiles and huge spiders that will give anyone nightmares. But these modern animals are nothing compared to the monsters that once roamed this land. Beasts so massive and terrifying they make today's wildlife look like a petting zoo. We begin our journey about 60,000 years ago when humans first stepped foot on this continent. Imagine walking through the Australian bush and meeting Thylacolio carnifex, the marsupial lion. Forget everything you know about modern day lions, this beast had pound for pound one of the strongest bite forces of any mammal that ever existed. Strong enough to crush the skull of its prey in one bite. Its front teeth were like industrial bolt cutters and it had big retractable thumb claws that could slice through prey like a hot knife through butter. This marsupial lion wasn't really any bigger than any modern day lioness standing just two and a half feet at the shoulders. But here's the scary part, this thing could climb trees with those retractable thumb claws. Picture a 250 pound predator built like a bulldog on steroids dropping down from a tree onto its prey. Since humans were also hunting for food at the same time, it's very likely that the two crossed paths a few times and someone probably ended up an unlucky dinner guest. Now imagine you're wandering through prehistoric Australia and out of the bush steps a bird that could look you in the eye or even tower over you. This is Gerionis newtonii, a flightless bird that stood about six and a half feet tall and weighed a whopping 530 pounds. That's nearly as tall as a modern day emu, but bulkier and much more intimidating. If today's cassowary looks like it stepped out of a dinosaur movie, Gerionis was its Pleistocene era equivalent on steroids that was built for survival. With powerful legs, it could probably run really fast, making it difficult to escape if you ended up on its bad side. It wasn't a predator, but its sheer size would have been enough to make you think twice about getting too close. Evidence was found that humans in Australia may have hunted these giant birds. Burned Gerionis eggshells have been found in archaeological sites, hinting that their massive eggs, bigger than a football, might have been the ultimate prehistoric breakfast. While Gerionis is long gone, it's certainly worth mentioning its modern day counterpart, the cassowary, which is known as the world's most dangerous bird. Found in northern Australia and New Guinea, cassowaries can reach up to six feet tall, and have a reputation for being very aggressive when threatened. Like Gerionis, cassowaries are flightless, with strong legs that can deliver a devastating kick with its insanely sharp talons, which can, and has just recently, killed a person with a single kick. That said, any human hunting encounter with Gerionis could have been fatal. Let's take a look at something that would make modern day kangaroos look like jumping mice. The giant short-faced kangaroo. Standing a whopping 10 feet tall and weighing half a ton, this beast was much bigger than a modern day kangaroo. Its face was short and wide, perfect for chomping through vegetation, and its arms were long enough to reach high tree branches. But here's the wild part. Unlike modern kangaroos that hop, this giant most likely walked around upright on its two hind legs and looked like some prehistoric heavyweight boxer. When it was a young bird, it was a little bit more aggressive than it is now. This giant is more likely to walk around upright on its two hind legs and look like some prehistoric heavyweight boxer. The giant's hind legs are also very large and look like a giant's hind legs. This giant lived up until 45,000 years ago before going extinct, although some evidence shows it may have survived as recently as 18,000 years ago. This means humans and these giant kangaroos surely crossed paths. Was it dangerous? It certainly was a powerful animal, and early humans probably didn't get too close to one. If you think that's impressive, take a look at palochests, the marsupial tapir. Large herbivores similar in shape to a pig. This bizarre looking creature also had a small trunk like an elephant, powerful claws like a ground sloth, and a body built like a bear. It could rear up on its hind legs to reach high branches and used its massive claws to strip bark from trees. At about 6 feet tall at the shoulder, it was larger than any living tapir today. Now you're probably thinking, could this thing have been dangerous to humans at the time? It most certainly was, and tapir teeth are big and sharp like their huge bark-stripping claws. Modern-day tapirs are often thought to be gentle animals, but their behaviour can be unpredictable, and they've been known to attack humans without warning, resulting in serious wounds. That said, the prehistoric version of this animal was definitely one that you wouldn't want to take any chances with. When you think about Australia's most dangerous creatures, the crocodile is one of the first animals to be seen as a dangerous animal. The crocodile is one of the first animals to be seen as a dangerous animal. The crocodile is one of the first animals to be seen as a dangerous animal. The crocodile is one of the first animals to be seen as a dangerous animal. And it certainly is dangerous, fearsome, and one of the quickest predators known to man. Even today, many people fall victim to the crocodile in fatal accidents, and it's a well-known fact that a crocodile can take a human's head off in one bite. But if you think modern crocodiles are scary, then check out quincana, a land-dwelling crocodile that could run as fast as a horse. Because unlike today's crocs that waddle around on four stumpy legs, quincana had long legs and could run down its prey. Most fossils found of quincana show that these species of crocodile averaged about 10 feet long in size. However, a Pliocene-aged fossil specimen shows it reached 20 feet in length, making it one of Australia's largest predators during that time. Its teeth were designed for slicing rather than gripping, meaning it could take chunks out of its prey with each bite. Imagine trying to outrun a crocodile that could slay and kill it. Imagine trying to outrun a crocodile that could slay and kill it. Imagine trying to outrun a crocodile that could slay and kill it. Imagine trying to outrun a crocodile that could slay and kill it. Imagine trying to outrun a crocodile that could slay and kill it. Now that's something truly terrifying. Now that's something truly terrifying. But this crocodile wasn't the only scary reptile running around at the time. This is Varenus priscus, also known as Megalania. It's the largest monitor lizard that ever existed. It grew to a surprising average size of 23 feet long and weighed over 1,300 pounds. That's about the size of a small car. Except this one came equipped with razor-sharp claws, serrated teeth, and a nasty venomous bite. Its claws weren't just tools for defense, but also powerful weapons for slashing and gripping prey. Meanwhile, its teeth were curved and serrated like steak knives, designed to slice through flesh with brutal efficiency. And if that wasn't enough to send chills down your spine, Varenus priscus had a venomous bite that likely delivered toxins to prevent blood clotting, causing its prey to bleed out slowly. Those big curved serrated teeth were also used to slay and kill. Those big curved serrated teeth were also used to slay and kill. Those big curved serrated teeth were also used to slay and kill. Those big curved serrated teeth were also used to slay and kill. Those big curved serrated teeth could tear 50-pound chunks of meat off its prey in a single bite. Those big curved serrated teeth could tear 50-pound chunks of meat off its prey in a single bite. This huge dragon lizard hunted anything it could find across Australia. While it mostly hunted large animals like Diprotodon and giant kangaroos, this massive lizard wouldn't have hesitated to target humans if they crossed its path. Imagine coming face to face with a reptile that could outrun you, overpower you, and outlast you, all with a single venomous bite to seal your fate. This giant lizard from a nightmare, was around up until about 50,000 years ago when it went extinct forever, likely due to climate change. But that's not all. Prehistoric Australia also had its share of scary giant snakes. Imagine a snake so massive it could easily make you question your spot at the top of the food chain. This was Lysistuba dingala, an enormous relative to today's olive python. Stretching up to 33 feet in length and weighing an estimated 550 pounds, this prehistoric snake wasn't just a predator, it was a master of ambush. This huge snake would have been perfectly at home in the rivers and forests of ancient Australia. With its sheer size, it could wrap itself around a human and crush them with ease. And yes, it was likely big enough to swallow someone whole. Fortunately, humans didn't arrive in Australia until thousands of years after these massive snakes disappeared. These snakes likely hunted large prey like giant kangaroos or even diprotodon. And with the way they could silently slither through their environment, it's not hard to imagine them lying in wait, blending into their surroundings, ready to strike. Picture a 30-foot-long snake coiled near a waterhole, waiting for its next meal. It's the stuff of nightmares and one of the most awe-inspiring creatures in Australia's prehistoric past. But the prehistoric oceans and seas of the ancient supercontinent Gondwana and Australia after it split away have been home to some of the scariest-looking marine predators ever seen, from the Jurassic to the Pliocene. Let's start with Cronosaurus, a marine reptile that would make today's great white sharks look like sardines. This monster grew up to 36 feet long, that's the length of a school bus, and had a head twice the size of T-Rex's. Its teeth were the size of a shark's teeth. It was also the size of a shark's bananas, and its jaw could generate enough force to crush a small boat. It weighed somewhere between 15 to 20 tons and ruled the Australian seas about 120 million years ago, feeding on anything unfortunate enough to cross its path. Then there was Ichthyosaur, reaching lengths of up to 70 feet. But what made these creatures truly remarkable were their eyes, the size of dinner plates, and more powerful than any other known animal. They could dive deeper than modern whales and swim faster than any living marine reptile reaching speeds of 25 miles per hour. But perhaps the most terrifying sea monster was Pliosaurus. Picture a creature with a head the size of a car, teeth longer than your forearm, and a bite force that could crush a small whale. This 50-foot-long nightmare had flippers the size of boat oars and could move through water faster than a speedboat. The seas were also known for their long-legged, long-tailed fins. They were also known for their long-tail fins and jagged fins, rather than a special girl. The sea really belonged to the greatest omnivorous protectors of fish. Although both tried to lengthen the size of the蛋 and dead fish like that, they had became invisible, despite the fact they were theications of living beings. But now, even the size of water scientists, when it was discovered, was actually afraid ofisen Energy more shallow who could blow into space than people in the world. And it was in this way that, in fact, the animals at이지 with the meaning of энергar. The associations of large hunters called there, might include fish. Maybe there were stead of smaller, heavier fish at<|fi|> and gladiators, that were being the�Rt<|be|>ehara Auh'rtheğaaa , the class smallest male of the African people of the chwem in the opaque yellow聲ryñel record that is believed today. jaws. Unlike modern sperm whales that feed mainly on squid, this 60-foot monster hunted other whales. But aside from that jaw full of huge teeth, it had another terrifying ability. Its head was filled with powerful sonar organs that it used to stun prey with sound waves loud enough to rupture internal organs. Now, let's dive deeper into one of the most infamous predators that ever patrolled these waters, Megalodon. While this massive shark hunted all around the world, the waters around Australia were some of its favorite hunting grounds. Just how big was this thing? Imagine a great white shark, already an impressive predator, but multiply that by three. Megalodons grew up to 60 feet long, that's longer than a semi-truck trailer. Their jaws were lined with teeth bigger than your hand, and with some reaching seven inches in length, they could be as big as a large dinner plate. But what made Megalodon truly terrifying was its hunting strategy. These monsters could swim at speeds of up to 40 miles per hour, using their massive tail fin to launch themselves at prey from below. When they struck, their bite force of 40,000 pounds, stronger than a T-Rex and 30 times more powerful than a lion, would shatter the bones of even the largest whales. They'd target their prey's fins first, crippling them before going in for the key. Megalodon was a very strong, aggressive, and aggressive monster. It was a very strong, aggressive monster. It was a very strong, strong monster. It was a very strong, aggressive monster. It was a very strong, strong monster. It was a very strong, aggressive monster. It was a very strong, aggressive monster. It was a very strong, aggressive monster. It was a very strong, aggressive monster. It was a very strong, aggressive monster. A single Megalodon could consume 2,500 pounds of food in one bite. That's the equivalent of eating an entire cow in one chomp. These are all fascinating creatures, but prehistoric Australia wasn't the only place where giants were roaming the planet. There were many more huge and awe-inspiring prehistoric animals. Gigantopithecus blacking, or G. blacki for short, was the largest primate to ever inhabit Earth. The species flourished around 2 million years ago in China, Southeast Asia, and parts of India, in dense canopy forests filled with a variety of fruit, seeds, grasses, and bamboo. No full skeleton of G. blacki has ever been found, only jawbones and teeth have been discovered. Once examined, the upper molars were found to be 57.8% larger compared to a modern-day gorilla's upper molars, and the lower molars 33% larger. Those estimates, compared to a modern gorilla, puts G. blacki's body weight at around 440 to 660 pounds or more, and the creature stood at a height of about 9 to 10 feet tall when standing fully upright. But, due to its tremendous size and weight, G. blacki would have been quadrupedal, and it was most likely a knuckle walker. Some researchers believe Gigantopithecus mostly ate bamboo and supplemented its diet with shrubs, roots, seeds, and fruit. But the once dense and humid closed canopy forests where it lived started to disappear, replaced by the mixed woodland-grassland ecosystem of the savannah. This means bamboo would have died out too, with bamboo and bamboo. The G. blacki would have been the first species to have a long, long, long life. The G. blacki would have been the first to have a long, long life. The G. blacki would have been the first species to have a long, long life. The bamboo would have been the first species to have a long, long life. The G. blacki would have been the first to have a long, long, long life. The G. blacki would have been the first to have a long, long, long life. Signs of pits and scratches found in the teeth suggest G. blacki had nothing left to eat except bark and twigs from the forest floor, and the species died out forever, around 295 to 215 thousand years ago. When it comes to massive prehistoric mammals, one creature stands as a colossal testament to the wonders of the ancient Americas, Megatherium. Often referred to as a giant sloth, Megatherium roamed the landscapes of South and Central America during the Pleistocene epoch, some 2.5 million to 11 thousand years ago. Picture a creature towering over modern grizzly bears, reaching heights of up to 20 feet tall when standing on its hind legs. Perhaps the most iconic feature is the Megatherium's enormous, curved claws that were well-suited for various tasks. These claws, which could grow up to a foot in length, were likely used for grabbing vegetation, stripping leaves from branches, and possibly used for defense against predators. These giant sloths were thought to be primarily herbivores, but some thought that they were omnivores as well, and they could crush smaller animals easily. Some archaeologists also believe that it used its claws for digging huge tunnels underground, and since 2009, more than 1,500 tunnels have been found with giant claw marks, some tunnels hundreds of feet long. Yet, no one knows why the Megatherium dug these tunnels. So, what happened to the Megatherium americanum? Evidence points to climate change and hunting by modern humans during a time called the late Quaternary Megafauna extinction event. Of course, it wasn't the only huge mammal roaming around during the Pleistocene epoch and in the same location. Imagine an armadillo the size of a Volkswagen Beetle and weighing up to 2 tons, and you have the Glyptodon. Glyptodon was an armored giant of the Pleistocene era. Resembling a massive prehistoric armadillo, Glyptodon had a heavy armored carapace or shell that encased its body, providing good protection against predators. This carapace was made of bone segments called osteoderms or scutes, much like the shell of a modern-day tortoise. In 2020, four Glyptodon shells were uncovered by a farmer in Argentina. Looking at them gives you an idea of what a Glyptodon shell looks like. The Glyptodon shell is a giant of the Pleistocene era. It is a giant of the Pleistocene era. Glyptodon is a giant of the Pleistocene era. It is a giant of the Pleistocene era. It is a giant of the Pleistocene era. It is a giant of the Pleistocene era. It is a giant of the Pleistocene era. Glyptodon was known for its large, fat, and large body, ranging in size from small car-sized specimens to behemoths exceeding 10 feet in length. Glyptodon roamed the grasslands and woodlands of the Americas, using its powerful limbs and sturdy claws to forage for vegetation and defend itself against predators. Despite its impressive defenses, Glyptodon eventually succumbed to the pressures of a changing world, the same way Megatherium went out with the last of its kind vanishing from Earth, roughly 10,000 years ago. It is very likely that they were not only hunted by early humans for their shells to be used as shelter, but they also had to watch out for other predators as well. Which brings us to our next huge prehistoric mammal. We are talking about Arctotherium, the giant, short-faced bear of the Pleistocene epoch, whose name literally means bear beast. Arctotherium was a formidable apex predator during its time and ranks among the largest of the Pleistocene species. Arctotherium was a formidable apex predator during its time and ranks among the largest of the largest of the Pleistocene epochs. Arctotherium was a formidable apex predator during its time and ranks among the largest bears known to have ever existed, with some estimates suggesting it could weigh up to 3,500 pounds and stand over 11 feet tall when standing on its hind legs. Its immense size distinguishes it as a true giant of the prehistoric world. Sporting a robust build and powerful limbs, this carnivorous colossus roamed the grasslands and forests of South America, and was armed with sharp claws and powerful jaws. As a formidable carnivore, Arctotherium likely occupied occupied the top of the food chain in its habitat, preying upon a variety of large mammals including Glyptodon and possibly Megatherium too. Its powerful jaws and sharp teeth, along with its robust build, suggest it was well adapted for hunting and consuming substantial prey. These massive bears went extinct right along with the extinction of the giant mammals they preyed upon. But there was another huge mammal that lived during the Pleistocene Epoch. The steppe mammoth is an extinct species of mammoth that inhabited Eurasia. It was one of the largest species of mammoth, characterized by its immense size and distinctive features. The steppe mammoth stood approximately 13 feet tall at the shoulder, and fossil evidence shows it could weigh up to 12 tons, much larger than modern-day elephants. It had long, curved tusks that could reach lengths of over 13 feet long, and were likely used for tasks such as digging in stumps. The steppe mammoth was well adapted to cold, open grassland environments, where it grazed on a diet primarily composed of grasses, sedges, and other low-lying vegetation. Fossil remains of the steppe mammoth have been discovered across a wide geographic range, spanning from Western Europe to Siberia and China. These fossils provide valuable insights into the evolutionary history and paleobiology of this magnificent creature. Scientists believe that the steppe mammoth played a significant role in shaping the ecosystems of the Pleistocene, influencing vegetation dynamics and serving as a keystone herbivore in its environment. Despite its impressive size and ecological importance, the steppe mammoth eventually faced extinction during the late Pleistocene, likely due to a combination of factors such as climate change, habitat loss, and human hunting pressures. Studying the steppe mammoth contributes to our understanding of the history of the steppe mammoth. Ex взять a clearer understanding of prehistoric biodiversity and the complex interplay between ancient megafauna and their changing environments. There is no doubt that the prehistoric mammals were huge, but you're about to see some that were even bigger! Indracoetherium, often referred to as The Siberian Unicorn, is one of the largest terrestrial mammals to have ever walked the Earth. It existed approximately 34 to 23 million years in Central Asia, particularly in regions now part of Kazakhstan, Mongolia, and China, where fossils of this giant have been found. What researchers discovered from the fossils is that it stood an astounding 16 to 18 feet high at the shoulder and had to weigh somewhere between 15 and 20 tons. That's about the same weight as three fully grown African elephants. Although Ytracotherium slightly resembles a modern-day rhinoceros without the horn on its nose, it's not directly related in the sense that it shared a common ancestor. Its massive size was likely an adaptation to browsing on the high branches of trees in its forested habitat. Ytracotherium possessed a long, flexible neck ideal for reaching vegetation high above the ground, and its robust skull supported powerful chewing muscles to grind down tough plant material. Now, when it's in the wild, it's a very difficult to find. We're not entirely sure why these creatures went extinct, but shifts in vegetation patterns and competition with other herbivore mammals may have contributed to its extinction. But there were many huge carnivores as well that also hunted large plant-eating mammals. Andrusarchus was a colossal carnivore that lived during the Eocene epoch. Andrusarchus, an extinct mammal from the Eocene epoch, is known primarily from a single skull discovered in Mongolia. It's believed to have lived around 45 to 36 million years ago, and is considered one of the largest carnivorous mammals known to science. Its massive skull, measuring over 83 centimeters in length, suggests it was a formidable predator, and hints at a powerful bite force capable of dispatching formidable prey with ease. Yet, despite its impressive size and predatory prowess, much about Andrusarchus remains shrouded in uncertainty. We know that mammals started out as very tiny creatures, but even some rodents grew to unusual sizes. Josephortogasia monicei, an extinct rodent species from the late Miocene of Uruguay, holds the title of the largest rodent ever known. Estimated to have lived around 2 to 4 million years ago, Josephortogasia possessed a skull measuring over 20 inches in length, suggesting an overall body size comparable to that of a bull. Just imagine a rat of this size. That's one huge rodent. It had remarkable size and powerful incisors, measuring up to 12 inches in length. However, the exact function of its formidable teeth remains speculative. The elongated incisors may have been used for various purposes, including accessing vegetation, digging burrows, or defending against predators. Without direct evidence from behavior or fossilized traces of its activities, scientists have been able to find out the exact function of its teeth. Josephortogasia monicei, an extinct rodent species from the late Miocene of Uruguay, scientists rely on anatomical features and comparisons with related species to infer the potential functions of Josephortogasia's incisors. The exact reasons for its extinction remain uncertain and are subject to ongoing scientific investigation. Various factors, including environmental changes, shifts in vegetation patterns, competition with other species, and possibly human activities, may have contributed to its demise. Titanotypillus monicei, an extinct rodent species from the late Miocene of Uruguay, scientists laughing on wordy content here with antip Russian languages, which is an immensely invasive species defined as tetrazyst mul. An extinct genus of Kamelidae lived during the late Miocene epoch around 10 to 15 million years ago. It was one of the largest known members of the camel family, standing at approximately 10 feet tall at the shoulder and weighing over 2,200 pounds. Titanotypillus had a robust build and long legs adapted for traversing the diverse landscapes of its time, including grasslands, savannas, and forests. Fossil discoveries of Titanotypillus monicei, Titanotipulus have been primarily made in North America, particularly in regions such as Texas, Nebraska, and California. Titanotipulus likely possessed a browsing diet, feeding on a variety of vegetation such as leaves, shrubs, and grasses. It also died out because of various environmental and ecological factors. While Titanotipulus was likely a large and powerful animal, it may have still been vulnerable to predation by large carnivores of the time, such as our next creature. So what do you get when you cross a bear and a dog? You get Amphisian, whose name actually means bear dog. It was a formidable carnivorous mammal that lived during the Miocene and early Pliocene epochs, roughly 16 to 2 million years ago. It ranged in size from that of a large dog to that of a modern bear, with some species reaching lengths of up to almost 7 feet long and standing at shoulder heights of over 3 feet. Possessing a unique blend of bear-like and dog-like characteristics, Amphisian had sharp teeth and powerful jaws, making it well-suited for hunting large vertebrates such as early horses, rhinoceroses, and juvenile elephants. Despite its prowess as a predator, Amphisian eventually went extinct during the late Neogene period, likely due to climate change, habitat loss, competition, and potentially human impact. Going back to the Pleistocene, there were other huge mammals that we've found fossils of. Diprotodon, often referred to as the giant wombat, was an extraordinary herbivorous marsupial that inhabited Australia during the Pleistocene epoch, around 1.6 million to 46,000 years ago. It stood as one of the largest known marsupials, reaching heights of up to 6.6 feet at the shoulder and weighing over 4,400 pounds. Its imposing size rivaled that of a modern-day rhinoceros. Diprotodon's most remarkable features included its massive skull, powerful limbs, and distinctive arrangement of teeth suited for consuming tough vegetation. Despite its formidable appearance, Diprotodon was likely a gentle giant, browsing on a variety of plants in its ancient Australian habitat. Tragically, Diprotodon, along with many other megafaunal species, faced extinction during the late Pleistocene, possibly due to a combination of climate change, human hunting, and the lack of food. Diprotodon was also known as the giant wombat, which was also a common species of marsupial. It was also known as the giant wombat, which was also a common species of marsupial. It was also known as the giant wombat, which was also a common species of marsupial. Now we've come to what appeared to be, at least for a little while, the largest mammal that ever lived on Earth. Pericetus colossus, an extinct species of sperm whale, once roamed the oceans during the Miocene epoch, approximately 12 to 13 million years ago. It earned its name from its massive size, reaching lengths of up to 65 feet and likely weighed over 88 short tons, rivaling modern sperm whales. It was also known as the giant wombat, which was a common species of marsupial. Now we've come to what appeared to be, at least for a little while, the largest mammal that ever lived on Earth. Pericetus colossus, an extinct species of sperm whale, once roamed the oceans during the Miocene epoch, approximately 12 to 13 million years ago. It was also known as the giant wombat, which was also a common species of sperm whale, once roamed the oceans during the Miocene epoch, relating to the miocene. It is also known as the giant wombat, which was also a common species of sperm whale, relating to the giant wombat, relating to the mucosa, and possibly other smaller cetaceans. Despite its colossal size and predatory prowess, Pericetus colossus eventually disappeared from the oceans, with the exact reasons for its extinction remaining unclear. The next extinct animal was probably a real terror. In fact, there was a group of animals called terror birds that are thankfully now extinct. The biggest of the 25 species of terror birds is called Phoris rachos. This big carnivorous flightless bird inhabited North America during the pliocene to early pleistocene. Phoris rachos stood around three metres tall and weighed in at 150 kilograms. It had long, agile legs and three-toed feet with long, sharp tires. Now, there are some names of the phorosis-rachos that are considered the most-hungry animal in the world. But, unfortunately, none of them are really unknown. If you know any name of them, you have to be aware that you know them all. It had a large beak that was hooked at the tip much like a present-day eagle, and it was a formidable lethal weapon that it could use to puncture the head of its prey. One or two strikes is all it would take for this bird to bring down its prey. It was once thought that this bird and early humans might have had a scuffle or two, but the Phorus rachos went extinct more than 2 million years ago. But despite this, it's now a fact that early humans have been prey for other big prehistoric birds. The giant extinct Haast's eagle was an apex predator from New Zealand. Fully grown, this true raptor could weigh up to 15 kilograms and had a wingspan of up to 3 meters. It had talons 5 to 6 meters long and a vulture-like bill measuring 130 millimeters in length. It was one of nature's perfect killing machines. The Haast's eagle hunted another much heavier flightless bird called the moa until human settlers arrived and hunted the moa to extinction. With competition for food, it's believed that some Haast's eagles preyed upon smaller human adults and children. There's proof of early humans being prey to giant birds. A 2 million-year-old hominid skull belonging to the famous Taung Child was carefully studied and was found to have puncture marks at the bottom of the 3-year-old's eye sockets. This ancient pre-human was probably attacked and scooped up by a large bird of prey, perhaps something like an African crowned eagle, and taken to its nest where it was eaten. The Haast's eagle was a very popular bird in the world of birds, and it was known to be one of the most popular birds in the world. It was also known to be a very popular bird in the world of birds. It was also known to be a very popular bird in the world of birds. It was also known to be a very popular bird in the world of birds. Huge birds of prey attacking humans isn't something new. In fact, about 10 years ago, a big eagle tried to snatch a baby in a park. Had it been the size of a Haast's eagle, the bird might have gotten away with its prey. Lions and tigers are scary enough to deal with for some, but if Smilodon were still around, there'd be another big cat for humans to contend with. Smilodon is perhaps one of the most famous of prehistoric animals, and best known for its 11-inch-long front teeth. Early grown, they weighed about 160 to 280 kilograms and measured 1.8 meters long and about 1 meter tall at the shoulder. The thing is that no one is sure how this big cat used those ridiculously long fangs, because Smilodon has a wimpy bite compared to modern-day lions. However, one idea is that they likely had incredibly strong neck muscles and could sink their long, saber teeth into the flesh of their prey. And for the record, Smilodon and early humans probably ran into each other often. The big cat went extinct about 10,000 years ago. We'd like to know what you think. How did Smilodon use his sabred teeth? Did we miss an extinct animal here? Sound off in the comments and let us know. Give us a like if you enjoyed the video and make sure to stay tuned here by subscribing so you won't miss a video. Thanks for watching!

Video Transcript #3

 You think Australia's deadly today? Let's run the numbers. Australia is home to 20 of the world's 25 most venomous snakes, including all of the top 11. It's got spiders like the Sydney funnel-web, whose bite can kill an adult human in under an hour. Box jellyfish drift through the water with enough venom to stop your heart in two minutes flat. Cone snails, those tiny pretty seashells you'd think are harmless, pack a sting so lethal it's called the cigarette snail, because you'll be dead before you finish one. The saltwater crocodile grows up to 23 feet long and weighs over 2,200 pounds. It's the largest reptile alive today, and it actively hunts people. Even the seemingly harmless cassowary bird? It can gut a human being with one kick. And yes, it's one of the very few birds on Earth known to evade. But it's also one of the few species of animal that have killed people. Oh, and just for fun, Australia has 66 species of venomous marine animals, including the blue-ringed octopus, small enough to fit in your palm, toxic enough to kill 26 humans with a single dose. Add to that the 2019 to 2020 bushfires, fires so huge they burned over 46 million acres, killed over a billion animals, and turned the skies blood red. Modern Australia is basically nature's biggest do-not-touch sign. And yet, compared to prehistoric Australia? Today's Australia is the kiddie pool. Because 50,000 years ago, this place wasn't just dangerous, it was apocalyptic. Giant, land-running crocodiles that sprinted like greyhounds. Lizards bigger than most cars, probably venomous. Snakes longer than SUVs, with the strength to crush prey to death. And so many of these The land croc from your nightmares. First horror on the list, the quincana. This wasn't some crocodile look-alike, it was the real deal. A genuine crocodilian, but not like the ones you see lazing around today. The quincana wasn't built for lurking in muddy water. It was built to run. Long, powerful legs lifted its body clear off the ground. Hoof-like toes for better grip on rough terrain. A flattened tail. Less for swimming. More for balance and sprinting. Basically, imagine a croc with the chassis of a greyhound. Most adults stretched around 10 feet long, and weighed about 4 pounds. About the size of a big American alligator. But that's just the average. The biggest quincana specimens? They could grow over 20 feet long, more than twice the size of a grown man, and weigh close to 1,000 pounds. And they weren't just big, they were perfectly armed. Their teeth weren't conical for gripping fish like modern crocs. They were blade-like, heavily serrated, built to slice clean through muscle and bone. They were also very strong. They were very strong. They were very strong. Exactly the kind of teeth you see in meat-slicing dinosaurs. These weren't ambush predators lying still in rivers. These were land-hunting, flesh-shredding sprint machines. Paleontologists even estimate their bite force could exceed 1,500 pounds per square inch. Enough to split a human torso in one crunch. And if you're thinking, Okay, just stay near the water. They won't chase me there. Think again. There's good evidence quincana could swim too. Not as gracefully as a true aquatic croc, sure, but well enough to catch you if you dove in hoping for a miracle. On land or in water, didn't matter. The quincana had you covered. Terribly covered. The giant lizard that could end you. But even the land crocs had competition. Enter megalania. Or, if you want to be scientific about it, Varanus priscus. Yeah, scientists gave it the technical name. But let's be honest. Megalania sounds way cooler. It literally means, Great roamer. Which is a polite way of saying, Terrifying land dragon. This was a monitor lizard, just like today's Komodo dragons. Except, way bigger, and way nastier. Minimum estimates put megalania at around 11 feet long, and weighing about 350 pounds. Already massive. About the size of a big sea lion. But the largest reconstructions? They suggest the biggest megalania could hit up to 26 feet in length. And not some skinny snake build either. This thing was beefy. Robust enough to weigh close to 4,000 pounds. That's two tons. For comparison, that's about as long as the longest recorded anaconda, but eight times heavier. But, it was a little bit heavier. And it wasn't just big for show. It had razor sharp, recurved teeth. Curved backward, designed to hook into flesh and not let go. Teeth that could pierce, tear, and hold struggling prey. Its legs were thick and muscular, built to bulldoze through terrain and bring down anything in its path. And its claws. Five inch hooked meat hooks. Perfect for ripping into prey. Or for climbing. Because yeah, megalania may have been part time tree climber too. Oh, and because this is Australia we're talking about? Megalania was probably venomous too. Modern monitor lizards, like Komodo dragons, produce venom that acts as an anticoagulant. Basically making it impossible for wounds to clot. A megalania bite wouldn't just hurt. It would bleed. And bleed. And bleed. Leading to shock. Massive blood loss. And infection. Meaning even if you somehow escaped the initial attack, you were probably still living on borrowed time. Venom. Blood loss. Septic shock. Take your pick. Facing a megalania was like rolling dice with death. And all the sides said, you lose. The snake that redefined fear. If your biggest phobia is snakes, congratulations, you would not have survived ancient Australia. Because slithering through the forests and wetlands was Wonambi. A snake so terrifying, it makes modern pythons look like garden hoses. Wonambi wasn't venomous. It didn't need to be. It was a giant constrictor. Stretching up to six meters. That's about twenty feet long. And weighing several hundred pounds. That's the length of a large Burmese python today. Except Wonambi lived in a world where everything else was bigger and meaner too. And while most modern constrictors like pythons and boas are designed to suffocate their prey and swallow them whole, Wonambi had a different, much more brutal problem. Its jaw was stiff. Primitive. Rigid. It couldn't dislocate its jaw like modern snakes to engulf giant animals in one gulp. Which meant, when Wonambi caught you, it didn't swallow you. It tore you apart. Sharp backward facing teeth. Brutal muscle strength. It would latch onto flesh, rip massive chunks out, and keep constricting until its prey was dead or shredded. Sometimes even disemboweling its victims in the struggle. Blood loss. Internal injuries. Suffocation. All on the menu. There was no quick, neat death here. Honestly? Getting mauled by megalania might have been a mercy compared to getting crushed, shredded, and bled out by Wonambi. And remember, this wasn't a one-off monster. Wonambi belonged to an entire family of giant snakes called the Matzoids, a prehistoric snake dynasty that ruled Australia long before venomous snakes became the local specialty. You didn't just have to watch your feet. You had to watch the trees. The water. The rocks. Everywhere. Because the ground itself might have been moving toward you. The mammals were just as unhinged. And before you start thinking, well, at least the mammals were probably cute and cuddly. Nope. Not even close. Australia's top mammalian predator was Thylacoleocarnifex, better known as the marsupial lion. And it was every bit as terrifying as the name suggests. Picture something roughly the size of a wild boar, or even a small lion, around 260 pounds of pure marsupial. It was a giant, with a huge, and a huge, muscle. But unlike lions, Thylacoleo wasn't built for chasing prey across open plains. It was built for ambush and instant kill. Its skull was short and deep, perfectly designed to maximize bite force. And its bite? Pound for pound, the strongest of any mammal that's ever lived. Even stronger than modern lions or tigers relative to its size. Scientists estimate Thylacoleo could bite down to a thousand pounds of force. Enough to crush bones, snap spines, and puncture thick hides in a single devastating chomp. Its teeth were bizarre and brutal. Instead of classic carnivore canines, it had enlarged, incisor-like teeth at the front of its jaw, perfect for stabbing deep wounds. And blade-like premolars at the sides, sharp as meat cleavers, evolved specifically for slicing flesh and snapping through bone. Basically, it carried a full butcher shock, and the teeth were like a sharp knife in the mouth. The claws were no joke either. Each hand had retractable, hooked claws, a rare feature in marsupials, attached to semi-opposable thumbs, giving it an insane grip strength. Those claws could grab onto prey, climb trees, or tear open flesh with surgical precision. And speaking of trees, there's strong evidence that Thylacoleo was a climber. It was a man-made machine, and it was able to cut down trees, even its kills, up into trees. Just like modern leopards stash their prey on branches to protect them from scavengers. Imagine walking through a prehistoric Australian forest, and realizing the 260-pound murder machine might not just be stalking you from behind. It might be above you too. In short, if the quinquena didn't get you, and the megalania didn't get you, and the wanambi didn't get you, then you'd be a searching, tree-climbing marsupial assassin waiting in the shadows. Even the herbivores could kill you. You'd think the herbivores, the gentle grazers, would be the safe ones. Yeah, no. Not in Australia. Meet Deprotodon, basically a wombat the size of a freaking car. The largest known marsupial to ever walk the Earth. On average, Deprotodon could weigh up to 3.8 tons. That's about 8,400 pounds, putting it squarely in the weight class of a modern Asian elephant. It stood around 6.6 feet tall at the shoulders, and stretched over 13 feet from snout to tail. Imagine a hippo, but furrier, and crankier. And Deprotodon wasn't just massive. It was built like a living tank. Thick bones, heavy muscles, and a center of gravity that could easily steamroll anything in its path. Its skull housed enormous, ever-growing front teeth, perfect for tearing through tough vegetation. But if it wanted to? Those jaws had enough force to crush a human femur like it was a twig. You did not want to get stomped, trampled, or even bumped by this thing. One wrong move and you'd be reduced to a memory, and as if hulking death wombats weren't enough. There's more in store for you. Death wombats. Death by giant bird. As stated prior, Australia is still home today to giant birds, and also the only ones in capacity, and aggressive enough to kill a fully grown human adult. And if you survived the other encounters, you could count on them to capitalize on the easy meal that humans were back then. Specifically, Genuornis newtonii. An ancient member of the Thunderbird family, because apparently prehistoric Australia decided everything needed to sound like a boss fight. Genuornis stood over 2 meters tall, that's 6.5 feet, and weighed in at a hefty 500 pounds. Flightless? Yep. But slow? Not a chance. This bird was built like a linebacker on a bad day. Stocky, heavily muscled legs. Powerful hips designed for sprinting and smashing. A center of gravity that could absolutely body-check you into another dimension. And while Genuornis was probably herbivorous, at least based on its beak shape, you would not want to bet your life on that probably. Because if it felt threatened, one kick could shatter your ribs. One headbutt could knock you into the next time zone. Their thick, heavy legs could deliver crushing blows strong enough to send a human-sized predator, or unlucky human, flying. And their sharp claws weren't just for show. They could easily rake through flesh if things got messy. Even worse. Genuornis lived in open plains and scrublands. Good luck hiding from a 2 meter tall bird when there's barely a bush to duck behind. In a place already crawling with reptilian monsters and killer mammals, prehistoric humans also had to worry about death by giant chicken. Because Australia. Humanity's Hardest Level And here's the game. And here's the kicker. Everything deadly in Australia today? Crocodiles. Great white sharks. Venomous jellyfish. Deadly spiders hiding where you least expect them. Yeah, they were already invited to the party back then. So, on top of today's living nightmare that is the Australian wilderness, well, now you could add those ancient species. Just to make sure sleep exists only in your sweet home. And you're not going to be able to sleep in Australia. Australia was basically Dark Souls, but in real life. And you didn't get a respawn. The entire ecosystem was fine-tuned to tear you apart, whether by venom, muscle, claw, fang, or sheer bad luck. And yet somehow, against all odds, humans survived. The first people to step foot onto this chaotic, reptile-infested nightmare of a continent didn't just scrape by. They thrived. Archaeological sites show clear evidence. Early humans hunted megafauna. They learned the land. They adapted. They turned predators into prey. Spears and fire and strategy beat fangs and claws. And to prove the point further, well, none of these exist anymore. And as for all megafauna worldwide, past or present, there's a great chance we played a role in these disappearances. Directly or indirectly. Meaning that when it came down to it, we were the scariest thing Australia had ever seen. Even here. Even at the end of the world. If this deep dive into prehistoric Australia made you grateful for modern life, or just glad you're not being chased by a sprinting crocodile, make sure to hit like, subscribe, and ring that notification bell. We've got plenty more stories from the edge of extinction, and the weird, wild corners of our past. Share this with someone who thinks Australia's current wildlife is scary. And drop a comment. What prehistoric nightmare fuel would you least want to run into? Thanks for being part of this journey. Until next time, keep listening to the echoes. And maybe stay out of Australia.